**Realm:** #Midgard | **Region:** #Southlands | **Nation:** #Nuria_Natal
___
From the moment the first god-kings attained near divinity by taming the magic of the River Nuria and the ley lines running the same course, the people of Nuria Natal knew they were part of something that the people of every other nation would covet. Nurian mages and scholars devised mountainous resurrection tomb-engines, powered and enhanced by ley lines, which the slumbering god-kings of the past could use to return in times of upheaval.

The citizens see themselves as the protectors of their enchanted river, and the construction of stone monuments, monolithic statues, and sphinxes are among the ways they express their love of the river and their devotion to it. Intricate temple complexes are built in veneration of their chosen gods, [[Anu-Akma]], [[Aten]], [[Bastet]], and [[Thoth-Hermes]], and the people know they are as important to these deities as the river and the land are. The god-kings and god-queens who rule them are worshiped as living deities. When they die, their bodies undergo a series of magical rituals and spiritual preparations before they are interred in elaborate pyramidal tombs. During times of crisis, the magic of their tombs interacts with the magic laid upon their bodies before burial, allowing former god-kings and god-queens to return to assist the kingdom. Usually the revived god-kings and god-queens return to their tombs when the crisis that awakened them has abated. As evidenced by the number currently active in Nuria Natal, however, this isn’t always the case. Only the gods know which god-kings or god-queens will be revived for a particular crisis, or why some remain active after those crises have ended, while others return to their slumber.

Nurians are proud of their kingdom and all it has accomplished. History is important to them, and citizens can recount the names and deeds of family members going back several generations. Telling tales of their relatives’ feats during significant events in the kingdom is a common pastime. Embellishment of family deeds is just as common; one cannot visit a tavern without hearing a dozen people telling improbable stories of how one of their relatives turned the tide in an important battle, or saved a god-king from certain death, or became the avatar of one of the gods of the realm.

Nurian pride is offset by the people’s refusal to admit the costs of their kingdom’s success. Nuria Natal’s store of rich resources attracts all manner of monsters, of the humanoid and the bestial variety, out to claim their share of the kingdom’s treasures and become part of its legacy. Secret societies of all kinds breed in the dark alleys and bright salons. Thousands of fiends, many summoned by Nurian mages and priests, spread their corruption throughout the River Kingdom. Many of the temples, monoliths, and other wonders in Nuria Natal were built by the labor of the kingdom’s slaves. The slavery and oppression of nonhumans is routine, with untold numbers of them bought and sold on Nuria’s auction blocks. A consequence of the constant threat of invasion from the northeast is Nuria’s suppression of scalykind. Dragonborn, kobolds, lizardfolk, and serpentfolk are treated with revulsion and distrust, if they are not killed or enslaved outright.\

___
**Next:** [[A Concise History|A Concise History of Nuria Natal]]
