Per-Xor is a city in [[Nuria Natal]].

At less than 200 years of age, Per-Xor is the youngest of Nuria Natal’s major cities. The sun god Aten seems to bless the city, his radiance shining from the four brass-bound Towers to the Sun, each fitted with a lens at the peak to focus the holy rays toward Martyr’s Square. Aten’s favor is barbed, however, and he has altered his towers so they increase the ambient temperature in Per-Xor above that of the surrounding lands to remind his people of his prophet’s sacrifice. This alteration causes the reflected heat from the towers to make the portions of the city nearest to them almost unbearable during the heat of the day. In most places this phenomenon would be a source of complaint, but in Per-Xor the inhabitants stoically accept it, considering it their penance for allowing Aten’s prophet to be martyred by dragon fire 50 years ago. The Tomb of the Prophet, on which construction began five decades ago, stands perpetually near completion but has never been declared finished. The monolith of red granite and marble draws thousands of visitors each year, most at the height of the rainy season.

The sect of the True Aten operates openly in Per-Xor, calling on the faithful to turn away from false gods and venerate only the life-giving sun. Behind closed doors, leaders of the sect plot to murder all the other priests in the city, including those who worship Aten in a less militant way. City residents feel the tension building, and those with the means to do so are leaving before the simmering holy war erupts into violence.